
Citation Prediction Bioinformatics 
Luke Davis, Mouna Kalidindi, Darpan Jhawar, Charles Stamey, Logan Hornbuckle
CSC 505-01 Fall 2018 UNCG

Introduction:

Centered on bioinformatics Scopus research papers’ data, we aim to predict the success of a paper.  The primary indicator of success 
will be centered around citations, and we will analyze and determine what factors are most important for the success of a paper.  It is
our hope that various useful, interesting indicators of success will reveal itself through the combination of machine learning and our
analysis.

The first phase of the project will consist of data wrangling and organizing, essentially preparing data for machine learning.  The next
phase will be researching and appropriately selecting what machine learning we want to apply.  Finally, we will perform analysis on the
machine learning and present our findings as intuitively and concisely as possible.

Progress 3 Overview:

In this third leg, we moved past merely representing our data and it's distribution, and begun to dig deeper into what variables might
work best once we start applying machine learning.

Tasks performed by each member:

Luke Davis:

I produced two graphical representations and respective analysis' on the distribution of citations.  I produced two graphs in this category.
1. a scatterplot
2. a probability distribution of citations over the years of our data.

I also produced graphical representations and analysis on authors and their relationship (or lack thereof) with citations.  I produced 3 graphs/tables in this category:
  1. a probability distribution of mean citations per author
  2. two side-by-side boxplots representing
    a) the papers with authors associated with historically high average citations
    b) all other papers
    c) a table containing the top 5 authors in terms of average citations along with their respective affiliations

Darpan Jhawar:

I worked on the field of Author Keywords and tried to see how it affects the number of citations a paper recieves. To do this I divided the work into two tasks:
  1. Find top 10 keywords based on their frequency of occurrence
  2. Find top 10 keywords based on average number of citations

I then compared both these results and found that only 1 keyword appeared in both of these lists. To undrestand it better, I generated probability distribution functions and boxplots for both of these tasks.
