Citation Prediction Bioinformatics 
Luke Davis, Mouna Kalidindi, Darpan Jhawar, Charles Stamey, Logan Hornbuckle
CSC 505-01 Fall 2018 UNCG

Introduction:

Centered on bioinformatics Scopus research papers’ data, we aim to predict the success of a paper.  The primary indicator of success will
be centered around citations, and we will analyze and determine what factors are most important for the success of a paper.  It is our hope
that various useful, interesting indicators of success will reveal itself through the combination of machine learning and our analysis.

The first phase of the project will consist of data wrangling and organizing, essentially preparing data for machine learning.  The next
phase will be researching and appropriately selecting what machine learning we want to apply.  Finally, we will perform analysis on the
machine learning and present our findings as intuitively and concisely as possible.

Tasks performed by each member:

Darpan Jhawar:
My initial task was to extract certain fields from the JSON files. There were 6 JSON files in total and my task was to extract the fields:
eid
cite	
Lang	
Para	
Title

I created 6 separate .csv files from the 6 JSON files and also created another file merging all of these. I then created a scatter plot
comparing the length of title of a paper to the number of citations.

Luke Davis:
Throughout the extraction, organization, and presentation of the data, I was responsible for a certain subset of the data.  They are as follows:
- Author ID
- Author Sequence (for publications with multiple authors, this tells us the order in which they are listed)
- Author Name
- Affiliation IDs (can be more than one)

The data given to us was divided into 6 JSON files.  Using python, I extracted my respective data points into 6 csv files.  However, to
avoid redundant data, I put affiliation IDs (along with their respective eid) in 6 additional files, as they would have a different 
number of columns.  This data was shared with the group, and subsequently merged with the other extracted data.  I then conducted 
graphical analysis on my subset of data - in particular, # of authors and # of affiliations.

Mouna Kalidindi
I extracted all publication related fields as mentioned below:
-Publication year
-Publication name
-Publication type

Different files were created for different years, Unique scopusId(eid) is added to all the files in order to merge data across years. 
Then some statistical analysis is done on the field Publication type and observed that most of the papers are published in Journals. And 
I created a correlation matrix to see the correlation between the number of authors and citations.

Logan Hornbuckle https://github.com/LoganHornbuckle
Using the JSON files given to us, I also extracted my subset of data into CSV files. Each CSV file matched the time interval of it's corresponding JSON file. My data pretained to the Paper's subject area & author keyword(s). The CSV file was divided by the following columns:
- Author Keyword
- Subject Area
   - Abbreviation
   - Text
   - Code
   
I wanted to see which subject area was the most popular. In order to do this I summed the total citations (grouped by subject area). I then divided #citations/#papers to get the average number of citations per paper (gropued by subject area) and created a bar plot of this data. The most popular subject areas included Arts, Nursing, Earth Science and Math. The least popular included Dentistry and Psychology. These results were a bit surprising.
