
Citation Prediction Bioinformatics 
Luke Davis, Mouna Kalidindi, Darpan Jhawar, Charles Stamey, Logan Hornbuckle
CSC 505-01 Fall 2018 UNCG

Introduction:

Centered on bioinformatics Scopus research papers’ data, we aim to predict the success of a paper.  The primary indicator of success 
will be centered around citations, and we will analyze and determine what factors are most important for the success of a paper.  It is
our hope that various useful, interesting indicators of success will reveal itself through the combination of machine learning and our
analysis.

The first phase of the project will consist of data wrangling and organizing, essentially preparing data for machine learning.  The next
phase will be researching and appropriately selecting what machine learning we want to apply.  Finally, we will perform analysis on the
machine learning and present our findings as intuitively and concisely as possible.

Progress 3 Overview:

In this third leg, we moved past merely representing our data and it's distribution, and begun to dig deeper into what variables might
work best once we start applying machine learning.

Tasks performed by each member:

Luke Davis:

I produced two graphical representations and respective analysis' on the distribution of citations.  I produced two graphs in this
category.
1. a scatterplot
2. a probability distribution of citations over the years of our data.

I also produced graphical representations and analysis on authors and their relationship (or lack thereof) with citations.  I produced 3
graphs/tables in this category:
  1. a probability distribution of mean citations per author
  2. two side-by-side boxplots representing
    a) the papers with authors associated with historically high average citations
    b) all other papers
    c) a table containing the top 5 authors in terms of average citations along with their respective affiliations

Darpan Jhawar:

I worked on the field of Author Keywords and tried to see how it affects the number of citations a paper recieves. To do this I divided
the work into two tasks:
  1. Find top 10 keywords based on their frequency of occurrence
  2. Find top 10 keywords based on average number of citations

I then compared both these results and found that only 1 keyword appeared in both of these lists. To undrestand it better, I generated
probability distribution functions and boxplots for both of these tasks.

Logan Hornbuckle:

I created various graphical representations comparing the average citations/paper for the top 10
fields of study. I seperated them into the following two groups:

1) Top 10 Most Cited Publications
2) Top 10 Most Published Publications

I performed comparisons via boxplot and bargraph visualizations. I also compared the distributions
of the top 2 fields of study from each group (above). Lastly, I tried to visually represent why
Mathematics ranked #1 in "most cited", but was absent from most published. I did this by comparing
its distribution with another field of study in the top 3 from the "most published" group.

Charles S. Stamey

Continuing from our second presentation, I first looked at two countries, the US and China. Here I compared to 
the amount of publications by each year. While there presented a large gap with the US leading counts in the 1980's and 90's,
China had actually decreased that gap, even leading in publication count some recent years (2010-11, 2016-17). While this is
an interesting fact, I am still researching to see if this can be helpful in predicting citations.
I worked on the field of affiliation name and country with comparisons in publication and citation count. My graphical analysis
included the following:

1) Top 10 Universities with the most publications. Then I recorded the average number of citations among those Universities.
2) First, averaging number of citations among all Universities, then taking the top 5 with the highest average. 
3) Probability Density Function between second highest of the two, Shanghai Jiaotong University and Cellzome AG. 

I began this task by initially removing Universities with less than 5 publications. Having said that, one note to mention:
European Bioinfomatics Institute had highest citaiton count with one publication and country as United States. All of their
other publications listed United Kingdom as the affilaition's country, so I removed the one with US. Results included that no
commonalities were found in my result. Additionally, Shanghai density was very left-skewed, while Cellzome AG had a smoother
distrbution. Lastly, high publication count did not equate to high average number of citations.
I remain determined to find how this field can contribute to Machine learning and citation prediction.

Mouna Kalidindi

I worked on year and publication venue fields. I performed graphical analysis on these fields to see their impact on citation.

Year:
1) Line graph for the number of papers published in each year
2) Line graph for the total number of citations per year
3) Citations to publications ratio
    I found a positive correlation between number of papers published and their citations across years. And based on year and 
citations proportions, it was evident that older the paper higher is the citation rate.

Publication Venues:
1)Top 5 publication venues based on the number of papers published 
2)Top 5 publication venues based on the average number of citations
  Box plots were generated for these tasks to analyze the distribution of data. I also extracted top 5 fields of study based on the   
  publication venues.



